--- amshu | aditya

The Love of Authenticity

Everyone has some good in them, for we are all children of God. Everything has
its own purpose here in creation. For humans, a big part of our purpose is
finding our purpose — understanding who we are, why we are here, and what we
specifically can contribute to creation.

The word "Amshu" means "ray," like a ray of sunlight. Every created thing is its
own ray of sunlight, and Amshu represents the love of each ray as a being
complete in itself. Amshu loves how each creature expresses its unique and
innate authenticity. Amshu represents the love of being our authentic selves in
the world.

=== Reflections

What ray of goodness shines through you regardless of whatever else happens?
What is your spark, your light that you alone can bring into the world?

Are you looking for goodness outside of yourself? Do you feel that you have
nothing to offer? Are you looking for an external person or event or object to
validate you so that you can feel you are good?

Can you feel your inherent goodness? Can you feel the special light that shines
through you? If not, do you want to find this light? What are you doing to find
it?


--- kashyapa | rishi

The Law of Creative Manifestation

Kashyapa is regarded as the father of all living beings. He fathered the devas,
the asuras, the Adityas, the nagas, and many other creatures. Like a good
father, Kashyapa did not privilege any group of offspring over another. Rather,
he could see that each had their own strengths and weaknesses, and he
appreciated each for their strengths and what they could do well, for what they
offered to creation as a whole.

But children often cannot see themselves clearly, especially their strengths. As
a father, Kashyapa is able to see the goodness in all of his children and to
help bring that out in them. It is in this Aditya that we find our purpose, the
special thing that we as individuals can contribute.

=== Reflections

What do you create? Why do you create it? Do you see yourself as a creator? Do
you enjoy creating, or perhaps you want to create but feel you don't have any
ideas?

What is your relationship to sexuality? Do you see it as something meant only
for procreation, or also for joy? How do you understand sexual mores and the
purpose and function of children in life?

How do you view your work in the world? Do you see it as unimportant, perhaps
even menial? Can you recognize that every function is necessary and has its
place? How could you shift your ideas about your role in the world in order to
see the inherent purpose and beauty in it?


--- tarkshya | yaksha

The Body's Focused Intent

Tarkshya provides the focused intent necessary to achieve any goal. Our bodily
integration or disintegration relates to this yaksha, for a healthy and cohesive
body allows us to be focused on our goal while an unhealthy body can be a great
distraction.

Amshu Aditya is about finding our own personal contribution that we can make.
Tarkshya gives the physical power and intent that is the medium for this
contribution to flow into the world. When this yaksha is working well, the body
simply knows what to do on the path of realizing its potential in the world.

=== Reflections

Do you have a firm and stable path in life? If so, are you actually focused on
that path and interacting with it consciously and intentionally, or does that
stability itself cause you to pursue distractions?

How susceptible are you to hype? When everybody goes mad over this or that
thing, do you also go mad? Do you refuse to even look because everyone else is?
Or are you able to observe from a place of objectivity and draw your own
conclusions?

When challenging things happen, do you let that derail you, or do you use what
happened to learn and become better, to focus even more on your path?


--- vidhyucchatru | rakshasa

The Struggle of Knowing One's Own Self

The name of this rakshasa means "lightning-enemy." Lightning is something that
flashes in the darkness to briefly dispel that darkness. But the light does not
stay. It is here for a moment and then gone. Knowing ourselves is not easy. We
have so many ideas of what we should do or how we should be, and these are
frequently not aligned with the ray Amshu endowed us with.

The struggle of this rakshasa is not only to see the light when it comes, but
also to hold onto its memory in the darkness, helping us to light our way as we
continue on our paths. We learn, and then forget, and then have to learn again.
The struggle here is to gain as much clarity as possible when the lightning
strikes and carry that clarity with us as we move forward.

=== Reflections

Do you know who you really are? What does that even mean? Have you thought you
knew yourself and then realized you didn't? Did you try to ignore it and pretend
you really were who you thought? Or did you accept it and go into that newness
with curiosity?

What is your relationship to inspiration, to sudden flashes of insight and
understanding? Does this happen frequently or rarely? Is this feeling exciting,
interesting, or comfortable for you? Or does it frighten and terrify you?

How susceptible are you to depression, to feeling like everything is dark? If
you are like this, what brings light into your life? How could you cultivate
more light?


--- ritasena | gandharva

He Who Acts Only from His Innate Knowing of Himself

The word "rita" is one of the oldest in Sanskrit, being used in the Rig Veda to
refer to divine law, or divine truth, or what today we might refer to as
"dharma," the inherent spiritual duty we are born with. The word "sena" means
army. Thus, Ritasena can be thought of as the "warrior of dharma."

In the context of Amshu Aditya, our dharma is first to recognize and
acknowledge the divine ray of goodness we have inside of us. The second is to
express that into the world as a service to others. Ritasena is the one who does
this primarily. His action causes us to live our dharma into the world.

=== Reflections

How often do you look for approval before acting? Do you wait until someone says
it's okay for you to do what you feel is right? Even if you feel the need to do
something, do you hesitate when you imagine the voices of other people telling
you not to?

How assertive are you? When your core essence is being trampled on, are you able
to protect yourself in a healthy way, or do you let others walk all over you?
Are you assertive loudly and brashly, or do you simply do what you know is right
regardless of whether others are looking?

What is your dharma? How active are you in pursuing it? Do you know where that
ray of sunlight is within you? Do you know how it shines out into the world and
affects others?


--- urvashi | apsara

She Who Awakens the Need to Create

Urvashi is most easily understood as the Muse, who engenders a spontaneous
desire to create. When the Muse speaks, one cannot help but listen, and then
act. The desire is too powerful, the emotions flow, and creation simply happens.

On a subtler level, Urvashi helps us to want to express who we are in the
world. There are many obstacles to that, and many remedies, but when Urvashi
comes, that urge is natural and much easier to follow. This is how the apsara
force works: our mood changes, and then we feel like doing something we didn't
before. The fundamental mood Urvashi invokes is the mood that impels us to
express who we really are.

=== Reflections

Do you like yourself? Are you able to look in the mirror? What sort of feelings
does contemplating your personality bring up? Does it make you want to show
others how much you have to offer, or does it make you want to hide because you
believe you have nothing to offer?

What activities do you do every day that connect you with your body, with your
emotions? What activities help your mind not be so immersed in itself? What
activities connect you with your essential creativity?

How often do you feel like being yourself? How often do you wish you weren't who
you actually are?


--- mahashankha | naga

The Urge to Stay Focused on What Truly Matters

The lotus flower is a very common metaphor for spirituality: it grows below the
water, up through the mud, but then creates a beautiful flower on top of all the
yuck. Mahashankha is the urge to keep growing through the mud.

Challenges and hardship in life are inevitable. When we focus on the world at
large, this is even more obvious, and it is easy to lose our way in all of the
despair and terrible things that happen every day. But the goal of the spiritual
path is to keep growing our lotus, regardless of what we have to grow it
through. Mahashankha is the urge to keep on our spiritual path regardless of
what is happening around us. It gives the ability to stay focused on what truly
matters and not be distracted by external factors.


=== Reflections

How distracted are you in daily life? What distracts you the most? Your phone?
Your friends? Negative thoughts? Do you notice when you are distracted, or are
you unaware even of your levels of focus?

Do you let other people or circumstances drag you down into the mud? When you
are on a good path and traveling well, do roadside attractions call to you so
much that you leave this road to wander? How aligned on your path are you
really?

Do you let the troubles of others and the world drag you down? We should be
attentive to others and have compassion, but sometimes being immersed in the
suffering of others can cause us to be derailed from our path. Are you able to
stay compassionately centered and grounded even when terrible things are
happening?
