--- aryama | aditya

The Love of Companionship

A child has no choice but to be bound to the mother, but husband and wife are
companions by choice. A child desperately needs its mother, but one adult does
not need another adult in the same way, though many things in life are better
and easier with companionship.

Aryama relates to wealth and a good life, all the things we can have by
partnering in long-term companionship with various creatures, whether the land
to grow food, trees for their shelter, animals for their many uses, or the
other humans in our lives, not just for the material benefits they provide, but
for the joy and fulfillment these relationships can bring.

The love of this Aditya is the Love of Companionship, both the love of being a
companion and of having a companion, but also a love of what companionship can
provide.


=== Reflections

How do you act in partnership? Do you give primarily, or do you take primarily?
Or have you worked out an equitable balance with your partner? What does "equal"
mean to you — that each one must do the dishes an equal amount of times, or that
each one contributes in a way that is balanced overall, and both partners feel
seen and taken care of?

What do you offer in all of your companionships? What does the other offer?

If you had to live this life alone, do you think you could? If not, where do you
yearn for companionship? Is it actually a companion you desire, a partner to
build something with? Or are you actually wanting someone to be your mother
again, to simply support you in whatever ways feel best to you?


--- pulaha | rishi

The Law of Enduring

Pulaha fathered all of the various kinds of animals on the earth. These animals
have been here for far longer than any human beings. In some respects, we come
from these animals, and we certainly depend on them. The Law of Enduring is
similar to "survival of the fittest," but here the law is not about strength —
it is about what truly works.

Anything that has endured the test of time now has an innate right to exist and
to have a say in what else exists in the world. The Law of Enduring says that
what works lasts and what lasts works, and this is a prime foundation on which
to build a good life.

=== Reflections

What is your relationship to your instinctual nature? Do you follow it? Do you
ignore it? Are you even aware of this aspect of yourself?

What have you been doing for a long time? Do these things exemplify who you are?
Do they indicate a love of life and companionship with life? Or have you been
ignoring your own inner instincts in order to follow what others think is best?

What is your relationship to nature? What is your relationship to animals? Do
you enjoy spending time with animals, seeing them outside? Do you ever sit
quietly outside and listen to the birds, trying to understand what they are
saying?


--- rathauja | yaksha

The Body's Power

Ratha refers to the same body made by Rathakrit, the yaksha of Dhata Aditya. It
is combined with the word ojas, meaning vitality — the vitality of life flowing
through the body.

Rathauja gives the body its energy. If the body does not have energy for
something, then Rathauja has not approved that action. If Rathauja approves,
you will certainly have all the power and strength necessary to accomplish your
goal.


=== Reflections

Do you follow the natural inclinations of your body, or is your body subject to
the dictates of your mind?

Do you know what it feels like for your body to say yes energetically to
something? To say no?

How much time do you spend every day listening to your body? Listening can mean
meditating, or walking peacefully without music, podcast, or other distraction.
It can mean lying in bed and gently attending to yourself, noticing how you
respond when various parts are touched.

Do you feel like a companion to the things and people in your life? Do they feel
like companions to you?

--- praheti | rakshasa

The Struggle Against Lethality

Praheti is the brother of Heti, the most powerful rakshasa who bodily defeats
any enemy. Praheti had the same potential, but sought to move away from acting
out this potential by transmuting its energy within himself. Rather than conquer
the world, Praheti chose to conquer himself.

When Praheti feels the urge to lash out, he asks himself whether he is truly in
danger. If he is truly in physical danger, then the Law of Protection says that
is permissible. But what Praheti found is that most often he was not truly in
danger — he was simply triggered by someone hurting his ego, or even hurting his
feelings. His spiritual practices led him to be able to discern the actual
threat, and when it was not a true threat, to transmute that lethal energy
inside himself rather than acting it out upon another.

=== Reflections

Are you more inclined to respond with anger or to let things go? Do you let
anger stew inside of you, or do you try to assuage it, or act it out in a
healthy way? Are you truly able to let things go, or is it just pretending —
still thinking about it underneath?

Have you ever responded as though to a physical threat, but then realized that
it was not physical at all? Were you able to pull yourself back, or did you lash
out without thinking?

How wounded is your ego? When someone pokes this wound, are you more likely to
explode or to withdraw?


--- narada | gandharva

The World's Most Capable and Responsible Man

Narada was born of Brahma and was requested by his father to procreate, but he
refused. Due to a curse, he ended up spending thousands of years with fifty
wives and many offspring. He was not dismayed by this, but realized that it was
his duty. He also realized that every duty in life is spiritual. He embodies the
masculine virtue of doing what is truly needed.

Narada shows us that being spiritual is not about wearing orange robes or
living in an ashram. Spirituality is about understanding the path we have been
laid upon and walking it with full faith and attention to our duties.

=== Reflections

Do you dream of running away to an ashram, or to a remote cabin in the woods?
Do you wish that everything would just stop and things would be like they were
ten years ago?

How do you view your responsibilities in life? Do you see them as coming from
God? What is your relationship with duty? Does it feel like someone is forcing
you to do something, or do you find it freeing because then you know what you
must do?

How well do you take responsibility, not just for what is properly yours, but
for what might not be yours but is proper for you to own in any case? When
things happen to you in life, do you see them as random occurrences, or do you
ask how you are responsible, even if from a logical perspective you had nothing
to do with it?


--- punjikasthali | apsara

She Who Makes What We Feel into Something Solid

Feelings by their nature come and go. Moods are inconstant — sometimes you want
something and sometimes you don't. But sometimes something happens and a
feeling becomes solid, so that you can almost touch it. Now that feeling is not
a potential but a firm part of your life, informing everything you do. It has
become a companion to you.

This is the action of Punjikasthali. The apsara of Dhata, Kritasthali, makes us
feel like exploring some new potential. Once we are familiar with those
potentials, Punjikasthali can come and make one or some of them firm and
consistent. Rather than sometimes being in the mood for something and sometimes
not, after the force of Punjikasthali operates we are established in this
feeling — it has become a companion to us.

=== Reflections

What are you committed to? What is your relationship to commitment in general?

Do you fly from one thing to another, or are you consistent? Perhaps in some
areas of your life Punjikasthali has crystallized and in some she has not.
Which are which?

Are there any areas of your life where you would like her to come and
crystallize something for you? Something you now feel ready to have the
companionship of?


--- kacchanira | naga

How Attentive Are You Really

In the Bhagavata Purana, Kunti, the mother of Arjuna and the Pandavas, asks
Krishna to give her difficulties in life. She knew from experience that when
things were good, she was less likely to think of Krishna. When you have
everything, it is easier to forget where it all came from. But she did not want
to forget Krishna — she wanted to merge in Him. It was for this reason that she
asked to always have difficulties, so that she would always be remembering her
beloved Krishna.

This doesn't mean it is impossible to think of God when things are good, just
that the habit can often wane. The action of Kacchanira is the urge to keep
growing and learning, even when things are good. At the highest level,
Kacchanira would still worship Krishna even with all of the material comforts
possible.

=== Reflections

What do you see as the ultimate goal of life?

Have you ever been materially poor? Have you ever been materially wealthy? How
did these conditions change or shape your actions and motivations?

If you have a spiritual practice, do you find it changes with conditions? When
things are good, do you do it less? When things are bad, do you do it more? Is
your goal and motivation consistent, or does it change depending on the
circumstances?
