--- bhaga | aditya

The Love of Discipline

The word "Bhaga" means "dispenser" and also "good fortune" and "prosperity."
Bhaga is the dispenser of good fortune, but he does not do so arbitrarily or
equally. For anything to succeed in life, three factors are necessary: time,
effort, and divine grace. Bhaga relates to effort. We cannot control time or
divine grace, but we can control our effort.

Bhaga extols the Love of Discipline. This says that what we have in life is due
to our effort, even if it may not seem so, and also that the effort we put in
will determine the result that comes out. This Aditya is ruled by Saturn, and
Saturn is the most disciplined of planets. He puts everything in its proper
place without waste or excess and is capable of the most intense effort when the
situation demands it.

=== Reflections

How do you deal with challenges? With complaints and wishes, or with acceptance?

Do you feel you've earned what you have in this life? Do you see your state of
mind, your habits, the way you view the world directly impacting the way the
world operates around you? Or do you feel that what happens in your life is
random? Or perhaps you feel you are a victim and don't deserve what has happened
to you?

What is your relationship to loss? Can you see the value in things leaving,
dying, going away? Or does it feel unbearable, like when something leaves you
just can't let it go, can't accept that things must die, end, leave at some
point?


--- ayu | rishi

The Law of Effort

The word "Ayu" means "life." The law propounded here is the Law of
Effort. Bhaga loves discipline, and the purpose of discipline is to
fulfill our responsibilities. The Law of Effort shows us where we must
put our efforts: on what we can change. So many things happen that we have no
control over. If your effort would not meaningfully impact the situation, then it
is probably not something to put your energy toward.

=== Reflections

What is your relationship to the results of your actions? Do you eagerly
anticipate the results, or are you focused on the act itself?

How much effort do you make regularly in daily life? Does it change depending on
what you are doing, or do you put effort toward any task you must complete? How
do you decide what to focus your effort on? Do you let other people dictate
that, or do you pay attention to yourself to learn what specific effort is
required of you?


--- arishtanemi | yaksha

The Body Unstoppable

"Arishtanemi" means "one whose wheel is unbroken." This yaksha exemplifies what
happens when we put maximum discipline and effort into our tasks: we become
unstoppable. The body and mind become so completely focused on the goal and
wrapped up in it that there is no other option; one must simply fulfill one's
responsibilities.

=== Reflections

Do you feel vital and alive, or dead and tired? When you wake up, is your body
ready to work, to go do the great things you are here to do? Or is it heavy,
slow — you just want to stay in bed and wish it were night again?

When do you give up? Immediately and easily? Or does it take a long time — you
really have to completely exhaust your effort before giving up? Or do you never
give up? If you never give up, what fuels you? If you give up immediately, what
fuel are you lacking?

What do you invest your energy in? Do you truly believe in that thing? When your
energy goes there, do you feel alive, like even though you are putting out
energy it is not a loss because what you are doing is worth it? Or do you feel
like your energy is wasted?


--- sphurja | rakshasa

The Battle Itself

Often our struggles are under the surface, or we don't engage with them fully.
Dealing with the other rakshasas can sometimes take years, because we go in and
out of the struggle — sometimes fighting, sometimes giving up, sometimes
winning, sometimes losing. But Sphurja does not let us do this at Bhaga Aditya.
Sphurja means "thunder-clap" — it is the sound of battle, of our struggle
finally coming to a head and being worked out.

The other rakshasas and beings may lead us to many realizations, they may deepen
our understanding, but by itself this is not enough. To change we actually have
to put those understandings into practice, we have to actually change who we are
and what we do. This is not easy — it is almost always a battle.

=== Reflections

How able are you to make changes in your life? Once you realize you need to
change, is it simple and straightforward — you just do it? Or is it very much a
struggle? You know you should, but fear holds you back, attachment holds you
back? Perhaps you have a glimpse of what you could be, but staying where you are
seems easier and more comfortable?

What is your relationship to courage? What is your relationship to fear? Even if
you are terrified, are you able to summon the courage to continue anyway, to
face the battles you must in this life? Or do you break down, run away, hide?

Have you ever fought for the truth when others didn't want to see it? How much
do you want the truth — enough to lose other things in your life if necessary in
order to have what is truly yours?


--- urnayu | gandharva

He Who Has No Fear at All of Death

Urnayu is the masculine force that has no fear of death. This is possible
because Urnayu understands the truth: we are beads strung on the single thread
of life. If a bead falls off, it does not destroy the thread. The point is life
itself, not any particular expression of life.

Urnayu can lead people to do seemingly crazy things, but this is grounded in the
reality that we all have a fate, a time that is designed for us to go. We do not
know what that time is, but neither staying home out of fear nor jumping off a
mountain for thrills affect this at all. With the knowledge that death is
inevitable, Urnayu is focused on what he does in each moment without any worry
for something he cannot change.

=== Reflections

What is your relationship with death? Have you ever imagined what it might be
like to die? If you died right now, would you be satisfied with your life and
how you lived it?

Do you believe that what happens in life is random, or that there is something
greater than any individual power directing creation? If you died today, would
you be angry, or would you greet it with acceptance?

What do you prioritize in your life and why? Do you prioritize survival due to a
fear of death? Or do you accept that death is inevitable and thus prioritize
love, community, and connection, despite the pain that can come with those
things?


--- purvacitta | apsara

She Who Readies the Heart for What Is Coming

Sometimes things happen in life and we are completely unprepared for them. They
blindside us and things fall apart. This is a situation where Purvacitta was not
present. If she had been, we would have been more emotionally prepared for what
happened. "Purvacitta" literally means "forethought." She has the ability to
discern the future, but her response to this is to help us become emotionally
ready to face what will come.

This readiness is not about planning or predicting — it is about the heart
being open and resilient enough to meet whatever arrives. When Purvacitta is
active, we may notice synchronicities and subtle signals that prepare us for
what lies ahead, even before we consciously understand what is coming.

=== Reflections

What is your relationship to synchronicity? Have you experienced something
unusual happening, and then soon after that occurrence becomes a key piece in a
further story?

Are you able to observe a situation and then look ahead and imagine how it might
turn out? If so, how do you deal with this? Like Cassandra, do you try to warn
everybody? Or perhaps, learning from her, you quietly start shifting ideas and
habits so that when the change occurs, others are more ready than they thought?

How aware are you of other people's emotions and energetic states? Can you feel
them and how they affect you? Are you able to deal with the vibrations the
emotions of others may cause in you?


--- karkotaka | naga

The Urge to Remorse and Making Amends

In the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna says that things which appear at first like nectar
may become poison, and things which appear at first like poison may be nectar.
The urge that Karkotaka instills is one such thing. We cannot avoid mistakes in
life, but usually our first instinct when making one is to hide it or blame
others. We also do many things which we don't realize as mistakes until later.

Karkotaka instills in us the urge to make amends for our mistakes and past
deeds. This can seem like poison at first. Not only do we have to acknowledge
that we did wrong, but we may also have to acknowledge this in public and be
seen as a mistake-maker. This however can cause us to want to truly make amends
for our misdeeds, so that we can gradually turn to a life of service. Eventually,
this becomes a joy, something we do for its own sake, rather than done simply to
expiate sin.

=== Reflections

How many sins have you committed in this life? How many things from your past
are you not proud of? How many of your past actions still make you cringe when
you put yourself back into that situation? If you were required to write a
curriculum vitae of your sins, could you?

Have you ever apologized to someone spontaneously? Have you ever recognized
first that you made a mistake and then corrected it before others needed to
point it out to you?

Do you enjoy contributing to other people, helping them out? When you do, are
you hoping to get something in return, or do you simply do it because it's the
right thing to do?
