--- indra | aditya

Self-Love

The word "Indra" is not a name but a title. There are many ages of the world
that come and go, and in each one an Indra is chosen to rule over and manage
that age. The way someone becomes Indra is by proving their spiritual worth and
ability through various challenges. This is why Indra is always testing rishis
and others doing intense spiritual practices — to see if they are truly worthy
of being Indra.

The foundation of Indra is self-love. To have self-love means to be aware of
our shortcomings and to want to make them better. It also means we are aware of
our strengths and use them properly. When we love something we want the best for
that thing; we don't want it to suffer and we want to take care of it. How many
of us really take care of ourselves this well? Not doing so demonstrates a lack
of self-love. With true self-love we see not only our capabilities but also our
weaknesses, which we accept but also strive to improve.


=== Reflections

Are you currently ruling your kingdom as a benevolent sovereign or as a tyrant
driven by wounds, craving, and desire? Did you grow up in a home with
benevolent sovereigns or raging tyrants?

How often do you test your own spiritual progress with the temptations of power
or pleasure? What do those tests reveal about your current maturity?

Can you accept a defeat with the same grace and authority as a victory,
recognizing that the winner is simply the one who is currently more fit for the
throne?

What is the basis for your self-love? Do you have a realistic understanding of
your strengths and weaknesses and how you are using them? Are you able to see
your value regardless of any weakness, and regardless of whatever other people
may say?

--- angiras | rishi

The Law of Essence

Essence means what is essential in us. The Law of Essence states that each
individual being has its own unique essence which must be respected. This law is
also an instruction for every creature on how to live its life: follow your own
essence and your own true nature.

This law is perhaps the simplest of them: be an Indra to yourself. Find out
your essence, your strengths and weaknesses, find out your true value and act on
that in a kingly way — meaning, be very dignified and solid in your innate
value.


=== Reflections

What is most essential in you? Which of your capacities do you find most
essential for living a good life? What weaknesses do you have that feel
debilitating? Are you able to see how your strengths and weaknesses interact and
mingle, creating together the overall value that is you?

How much do you feel you are a king, an Indra, in your life right now? Have you
experienced this in the past? When you feel like a king in your life, do things
work out better? Or at least can you more easily see the good in whatever is
happening?

--- shrota | yaksha

The Body Listening

"Shrota" means listening, and it refers to how we use the body with respect to
other people and their own personal spaces, paths, and journeys in life.

The yaksha of Indra, a sign focused on improving the self and loving one's true
essence, gives us the ability to listen to others. The yaksha of Mitra, a sign
focused externally, gives the ability to listen to internal sounds. Mitra is
about how we navigate our path; the internal sounds are important guideposts
when navigating the world. Indra Aditya is about how we cultivate self-love,
and the external indicators that we observe by listening to others are an
important guidepost on that path.


=== Reflections

How well do you listen to others? Do you take them seriously when they speak? Do
you view the ways others interact with you as a reflection of them or a
reflection of you?

Are you able to hear difficult truths about yourself without feeling that your
entire kingdom is under attack? Or does even the slightest criticism cause you
to shut down and turn away, refusing to listen any longer?

What truths is the world trying to tell you right now that you are refusing to
hear? Which situations keep happening, but for which you deny any responsibility
or influence over the outcome?

--- varya | rakshasa

The Struggle of Pride

Power corrupts. To be Indra, you must be able to hold power without it
corrupting you. How many of us can do this? How many can actually do it when the
time comes to give up the power?

We want to be the best we can be, and we should become that, but there is a
danger as well: we lose sight of the reason we are trying to become the best we
can be. It is not to be better than everyone else, but to be better than any
other version of ourselves.

The struggle of Varya is that we often do want to be better than others, and we
may act as if we were, regardless of any evidence to the contrary. Even when we
know our time is up and it is time for another Indra to take our place, Varya
still wants to say, "No, I am the best, I am still the king."


=== Reflections

Have you ever given up power? Was it easy — were you relieved? Or was it
challenging? Did you want to stay because you wanted the power, or because you
actually thought you were the best fit?

What are you proud of in your life? Is it a healthy pride? Did you legitimately
work hard and put in the effort required to create something that can engender
pride? Or is what you are prideful of something you have no control over?


--- vishvavasu | gandharva

The Most Righteous and Glorious King

The Sun, which rules Indra Aditya, is the king of the planets. Indra is the
king of the gods. Vishvavasu is an illustrious king, and while the Sun and
Indra have other roles to fulfill, the sole duty of Vishvavasu is to be the
most perfect king, which in truth means the most stable version of masculinity.
This is the force of the sacred masculine working righteously in the world to
accomplish its half of the cosmic dance.

=== Reflections

How do you regard masculinity? Do you believe the very idea is inherently
"toxic," or that certain behaviors labeled as "masculine" are toxic? Think of a
positive, healthy expression of masculinity. Do you have any of those qualities
in yourself, regardless of your sex or gender? Which such qualities do you
admire and would like to cultivate?

What is kingship? What are the proper duties and qualities of a king? If you had
the responsibilities of a king, could you bear them? Or would that power go to
your head, causing you to think the fact of being king itself conferred goodness
upon you?


--- pramlocha | apsara

She Who Loosens What Is Not Truly Ours

Pramlocha brings the feeling of detachment, of letting things go and being okay
with that. She points to the truth as explained by Sri Ramana Maharshi and
others: that in truth there is only Realization. Everything else is false, and
therefore it is not possible to become Realized — it is only possible to stop
forgetting that you are realized.

But to forget this whole world completely is very difficult. We do it in stages
and many painful steps. Pramlocha helps us in this process, kindling in us a
feeling of acceptance, building that muscle of letting go that will help us in
the final letting go.


=== Reflections

How much detachment do you have in normal life? Are you able to keep an inner
calm regardless of what happens, or does your passion override and cause you to
lose your groundedness?

What have you successfully let go of? What are you still holding on to?

"To make a Saint takes no time — but who is prepared to sacrifice everything?
That this world should be nothing, non-existent for you anymore, who is prepared
to accept it?" — from Daughter of Fire by Irina Tweedie

--- elapattra | naga

The Urge to Become the Best We Can Possibly Be

Elapattra is the urge to keep moving forward. Depression is being stuck. A
person may be aware they have many faults but not be able to summon the strength
to do anything about them; the urge to move forward in life is stalled and
stunted.

Whatever happens in life, we still have our kingdom to manage. Elapattra is the
force that urges us to continue caring for the kingdom regardless of whatever
else may be happening.

=== Reflections

How do you care for your kingdom? Neglectfully, or with awareness and attention?

When you feel stuck or depressed, what is the spark that eventually moves you
forward again?
