--- pusha | aditya

The Love of Service

Pusha is an ancient Vedic deity regarded as a keeper of animals, especially
herding animals like sheep and goats. He was thus regarded as the bringer of
prosperity, as in those times these animals were the foundation for wealth.
However, Pusha, due to a fault he committed, has no teeth.

It is a bit strange that a deity associated with prosperity doesn't have any
teeth, which makes it harder to enjoy the prosperity in a physical way. But
physicality is not the only way to enjoy prosperity. If you could not eat solid
food, that would be a great difficulty, but it would not ruin your life.
However, it would definitely take a lot of work to accept this situation.

In order to accept this you might have to find sources of nourishment and
satisfaction in other things, but you would also be faced with the question of
what is truly nourishing and fulfilling. Pusha's answer to this question was to
find nourishment both internally and in contributing to others, which is why he
embodies the Love of Service.

=== Reflections

How often do you serve others, or do nice or useful things for others simply of
your own accord? When you do, do you expect them to return the favor? Is your
motivation to help the other person, or to receive something in return?

Are you a picky eater? Does something have to be just the right texture, color,
shape, flavor for you to eat it? Or when you are hungry, you just need to eat
food and so you do, whatever is available?

What nourishes you? Do you need a big meal at a fancy restaurant, or a simple
meal at home with someone you love? What about emotionally — do you need others
to validate you in order to feel nourished and satisfied, or are you able to
provide this to yourself?


--- gautama | rishi

The Law of Need

Once Brahma the creator birthed a very beautiful daughter. All of the gods
wanted to marry her, so Brahma set a challenge: whoever could run around the
Earth three times the fastest could wed his daughter. All of the gods sped off
running. Gautama walked to a nearby cow and circled it three times. He was then
married to Ahalya. He recognized that the Earth gives us what we need, just as
the cow did and does. If you need the whole Earth, that is a lot, but if you
just need a cow, that is something different.

=== Reflections

How much do you really need? How much of what you have do you really need? How
often do you intentionally put yourself in a situation that is unusual or
uncomfortable? When you are in such a situation, are you able to soothe
yourself, or do you break down?

Do you feel that you are the doer — that if you don't make it happen, then it
won't happen? Is this true in your experience of life, or have you experienced
something happening seemingly spontaneously?

Do you run after the results you desire, or are you focused on the task itself,
performing it with the utmost care and attention, viewing the action itself as a
prayer and the result as not being in any way under your control?


--- sushena | yaksha

The Body Expert

Sushena means "good army," and in this context refers to the body which through
much training and discipline has become a well-honed, well-oiled machine. It
does precisely what it is intended to do. Armies are trained relentlessly to do
certain things well. They are very specialized, and Sushena helps us to
recognize what our specialty is. If we apply the Love of Discipline that Bhaga
represents, we can become very adept in the area to which we apply ourselves.


=== Reflections

What are you an expert at? What is something you can just do, with little or no
effort? What are you a complete novice at? What is your prime strength — the
thing that gets you through no matter what? Even if everything else fails, which
of your innate abilities comes through to save you consistently?

How often do you focus on your strengths and what you do well versus your
weaknesses and what you do poorly? Do you think there is nothing you do well? If
so, know that this is not true. You are capable of something. Look for it in
your life. Even if one small thing, there is something you do well, something
innate to you.

How often do you express gratitude? For anything in your life, large or small?
What are you grateful for right now?


--- vata | rakshasa

The Struggle of Conquering Totally

True and complete transformation is very difficult. Even after fighting the
battle, there may still be enemies around who want to sneak up on us while we
try to recover. To conquer totally we must remove all enemies. Of course we are
not talking about other people — we are talking about internal enemies, the ones
that are hardest to get rid of.

How do we conquer totally? Is it possible to get rid of all the enemies? Vata
shows us that to truly conquer enemies, we have to change ourselves. We have to
transmute the enemies inside of us, turning them into friends.

=== Reflections

Have you ever made a change only to find yourself in basically the same
situation again? You change cities because of some situation and for a while it
seems better, but then whatever was happening returns in a different form? Were
you able to find an actual way out for good, or is it still following you?

What do you believe, and why? Have you ever truly examined your beliefs? Have
you ever shifted a deeply held belief? Examined it to such an extent that it
shifted, and then things became different?

Do your actions align with your beliefs? If someone only saw your actions and
not your beliefs, would they correctly deduce your beliefs from your actions?


--- suruci | gandharva

He Who Uses His Power Like the Sharpest Knife

The task of Suruci is to help us get what we truly need. His name means "good
splendor" or "good taste." But this is not the kind of taste you might find at a
Michelin star restaurant — this is the taste that will truly nourish us.

Often we seek things out where they are not actually to be found. We think
someone is capable of loving, or we simply want them to love us, but that is not
actually right for us, not actually what will nourish us. Suruci understands
perfectly what will be the best for him and goes after it intentionally.

=== Reflections

Have you enjoyed a night but then regretted it the next day? You had fun last
night, but was it truly nourishing to you? Or when you woke up, did you find a
hole, an ache somewhere still?

Do you know what actually nourishes you versus what only seems to nourish you?
What does true satisfaction feel like, in your body, in your mind, in your
emotions? How do you know that you have gotten what you truly needed? Or does
that sound impossible to you — the idea that you could be satisfied?


--- ghritachi | apsara

She Who Provides the Energy for Everything

You may have plenty of energy, but if you don't feel like doing something, then
that energy won't do you much good. The role of Ghritachi is to make us feel
like doing something. The root word of her name comes from the word for "ghee,"
clarified butter, a pure form of fat, which is the densest source of energy. At
heart this is not referring to physical energy but to emotional energy — the
desire to put our energy to use in a particular way.

=== Reflections

Do you regularly have the energy for what life requires of you, or are you
constantly exhausted, just barely getting by?

How do you use your energy? Do you focus primarily on your responsibilities and
obligations, making sure you have enough to do these well and completely? Or is
your first instinct to pursue something you think will be fun or pleasurable?


--- dhananjaya | naga

The Urge to Attain the Truest Wealth

Dhananjaya means "wealth-winner." In the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna often calls
Arjuna this. We tend to think of wealth as money and resources, and those have
their place. Just as warmth is being warm, so wealth is being "weal" — that is,
well. When we say the truest wealth, we mean what makes us truly well. On the
surface we have an urge toward pleasure and away from pain, but there is a
deeper urge beneath that, for a more authentic form of wealth.

=== Reflections

What is wealth? What is wellness? Do you need a lot of money to be well? Do you
need a beautiful body? A capable body? Or can you have wealth even if disabled?
What is the source of wealth, truly?

Do you regularly try to find the best value? Not just the cheapest item, but the
one that is actually worth it — not just worth the price, but inherently
valuable in itself? Do you have a good sense of what is inherently valuable to
you, or does this confuse you?

Do you value inner wealth more or outer wealth? What does inner wealth mean to
you? If that concept makes sense, are you wealthy, or do you feel poor? How much
time do you spend every day thinking about material wealth — more than what is
necessary for survival? How do you plan to take your material wealth with you
when you die?
