--- vishnu | aditya

The Love of God

The Srimad Bhagavatam views Vishnu as being everything, which doesn't really
make sense to us because we are so used to being very little, or thinking
ourselves to be very big, but not as in any way equal to everything else.
Obviously our forms are not the same, but what is the same is the energy that
enlivens them. That energy only changes form; it is never destroyed.

The Love of God means that we can see everything as a form of God, that we can
respect and acknowledge the identity of the energy that pervades everything. The
all-encompassing love of Varuna has the ability to not see any difference
whatsoever, but the Love of God of Vishnu Aditya is happening while we are
still unenlightened. It is where our human minds still see differences, but can
love all of these differences as expressions of the divine.


=== Reflections

What sharp distinctions do you draw in everyday life? "This is this and that is
that" and they are completely separate, no relationship whatsoever? Are you a
splitter or a lumper?

Does your vision rest only on the surface? Do you accept appearances completely,
thinking that the way something appears is the way it truly is?

How often do you interrogate yourself, asking why you really believe what you
believe? Why you actually regard this person that way? Why you actually want what
you want or don't want what you don't want?

Have you experienced seeing someone in a different light? Perhaps you really
dislike this person, but one time you were able to feel compassion for them and
feel a bit into who they are and why?


--- vishvamitra | rishi

The Law of Transformation

Vishvamitra was born a kshatriya, one of the warrior class, responsible for
ruling and protecting. But rishis are naturally of the Brahmin class, focused on
knowledge, faith, and understanding.

While a king, Vishvamitra heard about the magical cow Nandini owned by the sage
Vasishtha. Vishvamitra tried many times to take the cow by force but was never
successful. This experience led Vishvamitra to examine himself and realize that
he was not living up to his highest potential, so he decided to focus on his
spiritual mastery.

At first his motivation was to become greater than Vasishtha and defeat him, in
order to show how he, Vishvamitra, was the greatest. He underwent many trials
and penances in seeking this goal, including having many battles with Vasishtha.

Eventually Vishvamitra realized through his spiritual endeavors that there is
actually no superior or inferior. He made amends with Vasishtha, recognizing him
as his guru. Even though he thought he hated Vasishtha and was in constant
battle with him, this was actually his spiritual path, which led him to the
highest goal.

=== Reflections

How often have you transformed yourself in this life? Have you ever successfully
removed a bad habit? Have you ever successfully taught yourself a good habit?

Have you ever learned something from an enemy? More or less than you learn from
your friends?

Have you ever had a friend become an enemy, or an enemy become a friend?


--- satyajit | yaksha

The Body Loosens Its Hold

The name "Satyajit" means "truth-victory." Satyajit helps us to find the truth
through our bodily experiences. The real question of spirituality is whether we
are the body or not. To basically all of us it is obvious that we are the body,
yet the Realized Masters say it is even more obvious that we are not the body.

This is confusing and not obvious, but it is the truth, which Satyajit over
time helps us to find out. Like Vishvamitra, we have many thoughts about our
bodies which we struggle to manifest in the real world. Understanding the truth
about embodied existence and being able to see everything as a form of God go
hand-in-hand.

=== Reflections

Are you your body? Are you precisely the same as your body, or is there a
difference?

When things go wrong, do you tend to look outside, trying to find the cause
externally, or do you look inside, trying to find it internally?

Have you experienced a situation where your emotional or mental state was
reflected in an external situation? Where due to some external happening, you
became intensely aware of your inner processes?

How easily can you shift your perspective on something? Is it usually slow and
painful, happening gradually over a long time? Or perhaps one day you just
realize that the old thing doesn't work anymore and you pick up the new thing?


--- makhapeta | rakshasa

The Struggle of Actually Making the Change

It is often easier to see where others can change than where we ourselves can
change. Other people may see our issues so clearly when we are blind to them.
But even when we know the issue, it can still be difficult to actually change.

We may be able to see so clearly how something is harming us, yet we go through
the same cycle again and again, just not being able to actually make the change.
That is the struggle here. We know what we need to do, but actually making that
change can be very difficult.


=== Reflections

Have you ever known you needed to make a change, but it took a long time to
actually do it? Perhaps you knew a habit wasn't serving you, but you were still
attached to it? Or somehow you were addicted, and even though you knew
intellectually it wasn't helping, it felt like it was helping, so you kept doing
it?

What do you do when things become stale? Do you keep trying to make it feel like
it used to, or do you recognize you need a change and then make that change?

When life isn't working the way you want and things don't feel good, what is
your reaction? Do you reach for something you know will make you feel good for
the moment? Or do you look inside yourself and analyze why you feel the way you
do?


--- suryavarcas | gandharva

He Who Can Do the Impossible

Vishnu Aditya is about the energy that pervades everything, which can be neither
created nor destroyed. The gandharvas are masculine forces that direct this
energy outward. The name "Suryavarcas" means "the vital power of the Sun." This
gandharva, being in Vishnu Aditya, has direct access to that energy that powers
the Sun and the ability to direct it outward. This can be very good or very bad
depending on the person and their state of mind.


=== Reflections

Have you done something seemingly impossible? Have you lifted a car by yourself
to save someone in need? Have you told someone how you felt when it felt like
you might die if you did so?

How able are you to face your fears? Can you acknowledge that you have fears,
that you are afraid? If so, how many times have you actually faced down these
fears for real?

How do you deal with situations of physical suffering? What about mental
suffering? Are you able to soothe yourself enough to get through it? Do you
enjoy the challenge, or is every moment pure torture?


--- rambha | apsara

She Who Scrutinizes How We Use Our Energy

The energy that Vishnu represents is stored in our bodies primarily as sexual
energy. From this primary store the energy can be converted and redirected
toward any purpose.

Sexuality is not inherently wrong, but it has a specific place. It takes energy,
and if that energy is not being used properly then it is wasted. The spiritual
goal of Vishnu Aditya is to understand and use our energy wisely.

Rambha tests how well we understand our energy and how to use it. She does this
most blatantly through seduction. She approaches rishis who have dedicated all
of their energy to spirituality. She tries to seduce them, and if she succeeds,
this is an indication that their energy is not completely focused on their goal.


=== Reflections

What are you truly hungry for? What are you so hungry for that your energy to
pursue it never runs out?

Is your baseline to be tired, or to be full of energy? When you are full of
energy, what do you do with it — something productive, or do you squander it on
meaningless things?

What is your relationship to your sexual energy? Does it control you, or do you
control it? Do you know how to channel it into something productive, which could
be sex itself or another creative pursuit?


--- ashvatara | naga

The Urge to Break Through

Ashvatara represents the urge to break free from any chains or bonds that may be
tying us down. Our energy wants to be able to move and flow in any direction it
desires, at any time. But often there are many blocks in us — old emotions and
wounds that have crystallized and become stuck, which then prevent our energy
from flowing freely.

This can manifest as discontentment, distraction, and depression. Our energy
wants to flow in a certain way, but it is stuck and this causes everything else
to become stuck as well. We must examine why our energy is not flowing well and
then break through these blocks to free it.

=== Reflections

How much does your mind derail you? Are your ideas and concepts of the world
helping you to navigate it effectively, or are they themselves holding you back?
How often do you examine your preconceptions and mental models to determine how
accurate and useful they are?

What is your relationship to music? Does it move you more inside or more outside
— is it more of an emotional experience, or does it make you want to dance? Or
perhaps both?

When you have issues in your relationships, is your instinct to analyze what the
other person is doing wrong? Or do you analyze yourself and ask what
responsibility you have in this situation?

Have you become a different person? Remember all the stages and moments in your
life where something major shifted and was transformed into something new.
