--- vivasvan | aditya

The Love of Humanity

Vivasvan was married to a woman who was very beautiful and intelligent. She
loved him as well, but soon after their marriage she could not stand the
intensity of his rays. She loved him but they were burning her, so she created a
stand-in for herself named Shadow and she left to wander the world.

Eventually Vivasvan realized what had happened and he tracked his wife down to
find out why she had left. When she told him the reason, he offered to have his
rays trimmed. They went together to Tvashta, the gods' architect, and Tvashta
cut down Vivasvan's rays on his lathe.

This is the Love of Humanity: the willingness to diminish one's own intensity
for the sake of those one loves. It is the recognition that even the most
radiant power must be tempered to coexist with the fragile creatures who share
this world.


=== Reflections

What sacrifices have you made for other people? Were they family members, or
strangers?

What is your view of humanity? Are we a cancer, or a boon?

Which do you think is more important: humanity as a whole, as a species, or the
lives of individuals?


--- bhrigu | rishi

The Law of Man

Bhrigu is one of the most renowned of the rishis. He is considered the father
of astrology and also the father of Venus, who is the greatest among
astrologers.

Astrology is a system that describes how things work — how this maya works, and
more specifically how we humans work, both in practical, concrete terms and in
emotional, psychological terms. The law Bhrigu extols is the Law of Man.

Man's prime function is to understand this creation, and Vivasvan Aditya is
where the locus of that work resides. Vivasvan is ruled by Mercury, who also
rules in the investigative sign of Mitra. Mitra is broader — it wants to be
friends with everybody and explore everything. But Vivasvan is the feminine sign
of Mercury, where Mercury can be more focused and go deep into a certain area.

=== Reflections

What does the phrase "Law of Man" mean to you? What images does it summon? Are
they positive or negative? Does the word "law" make you cringe, or perhaps the
word "man"?

What is unique to humans? What do we do that other creatures do not, such that
we need a "Law of Man"?

What is your relationship to your humanity? Do you feel like a human, or perhaps
like an alien, or something else?

--- asarana | yaksha

The Body Relating

Maybe a few survivalists could truly survive on their own in the wild, but the
vast majority of humans are not capable of that. We never have been. Humans have
always needed each other. That is simply how we are designed.

No matter how powerful we may be, even as powerful as the Sun with diminished
rays, we still need others, and we can feel this need deeply in our bodies —
from all of the physical sensations to the emotional ones. Most of the lives of
our bodies actually revolve around other bodies.

As much as we need it, however, being with others, living with others, can be
very challenging, even excruciating. There are many lessons here in how bodies
relate to each other. In truth it isn't just the bodies, but also the energy in
the bodies. We are all sensitive to this energy to some degree, and this
actually influences our relationships in a big way.


=== Reflections

Where do you go for comfort? Are you able to soothe yourself, or do you prefer
the company of others?

How aware are you of the energy in your own body and how it affects those around
you? How aware are you of the energy of others and how it affects you?

--- vyaghra | rakshasa

The Struggle of Being Authentic

Being seen for who we truly are can be terrifying, even if we really want that.
We all know how much group dynamics can influence individual behavior. We all
want to be true to ourselves, but this can be very difficult in a social
context. It can be easier to just be someone else; if we aren't ourselves, then
ourselves cannot be hurt.

"Vyaghra" means tiger. To a human, a tiger is very obvious because they are
orange surrounded by green, but the tiger's prey are colorblind, so the stripes
serve as excellent camouflage for the tiger.

This is the demonic inclination of Vyaghra. A person under this influence puts
on a mask in order to hunt others, to manipulate in order to get what they want.
But this same ability is used regularly in daily life, since we often switch
roles in various circumstances. This is not being inauthentic, as long as the
role we are playing is authentic to us in that situation.

The struggle of Vyaghra is to accept being seen for who one really is and to
refrain from using our natural role-playing abilities for inappropriate ends.


=== Reflections

Have you ever met a "wolf in sheep's clothing"? Was it obvious from the
beginning, or did you have to suffer a bit before you noticed?

How often do you switch roles in your daily life? Are you aware when you do
this, or does it happen naturally? Do you think acting is lying, or is it
possibly something else?

Have you ever manipulated someone intentionally? Have you ever been manipulated?
How long did it take you to find out?


--- ugrasena | gandharva

He Who Sees the Situation Clearly and Deals with It Perfectly

The fundamental role of humans in creation is to steward it. We have something
most creatures don't have, and that properly confers upon us an obligation to
use this beneficence in a way that benefits everyone.

Ugrasena is the force with which we express our humanity into the world. "Our
humanity" means anything that humans are capable of, which is very much, both
good and bad. The ability of Ugrasena comes from Mercury, who analyzes and
understands deeply. This allows Ugrasena to know what needs to be done and how
to do it. And he does.

The word "sena" means army. "Ugra" can mean powerful, violent, mighty, strong,
formidable, high, noble. This is what humanity is in the world: a great army
with many capabilities within it, for good and for bad.

=== Reflections

How situationally aware are you? Which direction is north? Point to the nearest
window. What kind of bird did you see last? Where are your keys right now?

How decisive are you? When you see that something needs to be done, do you do
it, or do you wait and see if maybe someone else will do it?


--- anumloca | apsara

She Who Engenders a Feeling of Belonging

Anumloca helps us to know what is right for us by giving a feeling of
belonging. We feel safe, comfortable, like we belong, and then we know this is
the right place for us.

=== Reflections

Where do you belong? Do you feel like you belong where you are, or are you an
outcast?

How wide is your circle? Do you enjoy being a part of communities?

How easy is it for you to ask for help? Do people often ask you for your help?

--- shankhapala | naga

The Urge to Find the Truth

Why? Why? Why? A question often asked by children which can annoy the adults
around them. But this shows a deep urge that humans have to understand the
world, themselves, and everything around them. When this urge is healthy, it can
also act as a sort of lie detector — the urge itself causes the truth to be more
apparent.

=== Reflections

Were you a curious child? How often did you ask why? Would you keep asking,
trying to trace the reasoning down to its roots, to find the ultimate reason?
Or were you more easily satisfied?

What is your relationship to truth and lies? Do you lie? Frequently?
Infrequently? Why do you lie — for fun, to get something, out of a sense of
inadequacy? Do you believe people would not like you or love you if you told the
truth?

How often do you ask why in your life now? Are you often trying to find the
reasons, causes, and purposes of things, or do you simply want to go back to
whatever else you prefer to do?
